https://wiki.cites.illinois.edu/wiki/download/attachments/578625131/CS412%20HW1%20SP16.pdf?version=3&modificationDate=1454096996000&api=v2

Question 1 (15 points)
Given a dataset, data.online.scores (in data.zip), which includes the records of students
exam scores (sample from the population) for the past few years of an online course. The
first column is the students id, the second column is the mid-term scores, and the third
column is the final scores, and data are splitted by tab. Based on the dataset, give out
the following statistical description of data. If the result is not integer, then round it to 3
decimal places.
Give out the basic statistical description about mid-term scores. You should write scripts to
calculate statistical descriptions. There is no restrictions on the language you use.
a. (3’) Max, min
b. (3’) First quantile Q1, the median, and the third quantile Q3.
1
2
c. (3’) The sample mean score.
d. (3’) The mode score.
e. (3’) The sample variance.



Question 2 (15 points)
Given the inventories of two supermarkets King Kullen (KK) and J Sainsbury (JS), compare
the similarity between this two supermarkets by using the different proximity measures. if
the result is not integer, then round it to 3 decimal places.
a. (3’) Given 200 items, the following table 1 summarizes how many items are supplied
by corresponding supermarket in Table 1. In Table 1, for KK = 0 (King Kullen has
no such items), JS = 0, it corresponds to the number of items among the 200 items
that are served neither by KK nor JS. For KK = 1, JS = 0, it corresponds the number
of items among the 200 items that are served by KK but not JS. So on and so forth.
Based on this table, calculate the Jaccard coefficient of similarity between J Sainsbury
and King Kullen.
JS
KK
1 0
1 41 58
0 22 79
Table 1: Contingency Table for KK and JS
b. (9’) Based on all items (treat the counts of the 100 items as a feature vector of the
two supermarkets), (file data.supermarkets.inventories, contained in the file data.zip),
calculate the minkowski distance of the two vectors with regard to different h values:
1. h=1 (Manhattan distance)
2. h=2 (Euclidean distance)
3. h=∞ (Supremum distance)
c. (3’) The Cosine similarity between J Sainsbury and King Kullen with regard to the
feature vector. (file data.supermarkets.inventories, contained in the file data.zip).
Question 3 (10 points)
Based on the data of students’ scores (file data.online.scores, contained in the file data.zip),
normalize the mid-term score using z-score normalization (divided by the empirical standard
deviation). Please write a script to normalize the data using z-score normalization, in any
language of your choice. You need to include the script file in your submission.
3
a. (5) Compare the sample mean and variance before and after normalization.
b. (5) Given original score of 90, what is the corresponding score after normalization?



Question 4 (30 points)
In order to better understand the intuition and usage of Pearson correlation coefficients and
Principal Component Analysis (PCA), in the data folder, you are given the Iris dataset
(iris.data, contained in the data.zip) and description (iris.names, contained in the data.zip).
There are 150 data items in this dataset. Run PCA to project the data down to a two
dimensional subspace spanned by the first two principal components. Matlab can be helpful
for this question.
a. (10) produce a scatter plot of the data after projection. Make sure you plot each of the
three classes differently (using color or different markers), and add legend. Report the
scatter plot. (Hint: you may want to play with the data via different pre-processing
methods.)
b. (20) Compare the results under different choices of two dimensional spaces.
Note: You DO NOT need to implement PCA. Using existing packages is allowed.